Copyright (c) 1996, California Institute of Technology.  
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.   U.S. Government Sponsorship acknowledged. 

THESE TERMS APPLY TO ALL USERS OF THIS SOFTWARE.  Access and use of
this software shall impose the following obligations and
understandings on the user.  The user is granted the right, without
any fee or cost, to use, copy, modify, enhance and distribute this
software, and any derivative works thereof, and its supporting
documentation for research purposes only, provided that this entire
notice appears in all copies of the software, derivative works and
supporting documentation.  The names Caltech or JPL however, may not 
be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any
products or commercial entity unless specific written permission is
obtained from Caltech. The user also understands that Caltech/JPL is
not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting,
training or assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation
and performance of this software nor to provide the user with any
updates, revisions, new versions or "bug fixes".

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL CALTECH BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
ACCESS, USE OF PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

