News for version 1.4.4

Updates since 2016-09-27, see the ChangeLog

News for version 1.4.3

Updates since 2016-03-09, see the ChangeLog

News for version 1.4.2

Updates since 2015-12-30, see the ChangeLog

News for version 1.4.1

Minor updates, see the ChangeLog

News for version 1.4.0

More response-time reductions - the 1.3 release focused on JoinNew,
this release introduces performance enhancements for JoinExisting. 
Caching is employed to drop the response times for JoinExisting 
aggregations once an initial request is made.

Other fixes are included; The NCML is parser is better behaved.
See the ChangeLog for a list of bug fixes.

Version 1.3.0 (19 Sept 2015)

This version specializes the serialization of values - normally
handled by libdap - so that the results of large aggregations are
streamed back to clients as soon as any data are available. This
typically means as soon as the first 'granule' is read. This change
drops response latency significantly, often to a fraction of a second.

This version also frees memory for serialized data as soon as
possible, dramatically lowering the memory footprint of the server for
aggregations.

Version 1.2.4 (22 April 2014)

Bug fixes for clang vs gnu compilation 

Version 1.2.3 (10 September 2013)

Merged code with Hyrax 1.8 changes and repaired tests.

Version 1.2.2

Build fix for CentOS 6.

Version 1.2.1

Fixes for Grids so that their Map vectors now appear as top-level
variables to mimic the 'shared dimensions' hack used to make older
netcdf-based clients work.

Added a new configuration parameter to address the question about just 
what to do with top-level (global) attributes. The parameter is named
NCML.GlobalAttributesContainerName and if present and set to a value, 
a container of that name will be used to hold all of the top-level attributes.

Version 1.2.0

A know bug exists for attributes defined at the top-level (i.e., right
after the <netcdf> element) for JoinExisting and Union aggregations.
Since we don't know if they should be included in the NC_GLOBAL
container or not, they are currently elided from the aggregation. Also
Note: Now global attributes appear in a NC_GLOBAL container, unless
the client requests a DAP4 response. Because of this change 12 tests
fail: 354 356 359 361 369 371 373 375 561 563 566 568

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.1.0 (13 September 2010)
  
  * Initial implementation of joinExisting aggregation:

    o Requires use of <netcdf> (or <scan>) "ncoords" attribute to
      indicate granule join dimension cardinality since granule DDS is
      not (yet) loaded from disk.

    o Extends NcML 2.2 to allow <scan> element to contain ncoords
      attribute that is implicitly inherited by every dataset granule
      that matches the scan criteria.  Used to allow scan to be used
      in joinExisting aggregation where all granules have the same
      outer dimension size.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0.3 (9 July 2010)
  
  * Optimization of joinNew aggregations on Array variables.

  * Several new tests added to testsuite.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0.2 (4 May 2010)
 
  * Fixes for outdated test baselines after changes to hdf4_handler's
    handling of shared dimension attributes.

  * Changes to allow automatic RPM building and other minor configure
    issues
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0.1 (8 Apr 2010)
 
  * Removed International Components for Unicode sub-distribution.  It
    is now an external dependency that the user must install from RPM
    (Linux) or from source prior to building or installing the
    ncml_module.

  * Bug fix for attributes and variables of the same fully qualified
    name being created, which is illegal in DAP2.  Now a parse error
    not unknown exception if attempted.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0.0 (5 Feb 2010)

  * Aggregations: 
    
    * Added initial support for two NcML 2.2 aggregations: "union" and
      "joinNew".  (Support for "joinExisting and "fmrc" aggregations
      are planned to be added in future releases of the module).  This
      includes the ability to scan directories for files in the
      aggregation using suffixes, regular expressions, and also to
      parse SimpleDateFormat patterns in a filename into ISO 8601 date
      coordinates.

    * A subproject dependency on International Components for Unicode
     (ICU) version 4.2.1 was added to the module for allowing
     SimpleDateFormat parses in the scan@dateFormatMark attribute.
     This subproject will be installed in a "hyrax_icu" subdir of the
     given configure prefix location for the install.  We do not
     overwrite or use any existing ICU installations on the machine.

  * OtherXML and XML Namespaces

    * Added support for attributes of special DAP type "OtherXML" to
      the module.  This extension to NcML 2.2 allows authors to
      specify arbitrary XML trees as an attribute which will be
      embedded into the DDX response.  This allows injection of
      XML-based metadata to existing datasets for further processing.

    * Added initial support for handling XML namespaces.
      Additionally, "OtherXML" subtrees will now have any existing
      namespaces defined within ancestor NcML elements added into
      their root element to allow the subtree to be encapsulated with
      all defined namespaces in scope.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 0.9.1 (20 Aug 2009)

 * Added functionality to remove and rename variables in an existing
   (wrapped) dataset using <remove> and variable@orgName in the proper
   context.

 * Added functionality to add new variables to an existing dataset or
   to create a purely virtual dataset (no netcdf@location specified to
   load).  New variables can be scalars of basic types, a Structure
   consisting of other variables, or an array (N-dimensional) of basic
   types.

 * Added ability to use <dimension> element to specify named
   dimensions in a variable@shape.  These are not shared, but simply
   refer to the dimension@length for the specified dimension.

 * New $srcdir/tests Autotest framework testbed.  Removed dependency
   on DejaGNU.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 0.9.0 (27 Jul 2009)

Initial internal alpha release.  Functionality for adding, changing, removing metadata (attributes).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 0.0.1 (01 Jan 2009)

Initial example module creation.
