News for version 3.9.6

Updates since 2016-09-27, see the ChangeLog

News for version 3.9.5

Updates since 2016-05-10, see the ChangeLog

News for version 3.9.4

Updates since 2016-01-26, see the ChangeLog

News for version 3.9.3

Minor updates, see the ChangeLog

News for version 3.9.2

Minor updates, see the ChangeLog

News for version 3.9.1

Minor updates, see the ChangeLog

Version 3.8.8

Minor Updates

Version 3.8.7

Fixed the behavior of BaseType::read() to match libdap 3.12.1

Fixed some of the date() server functions WRT the clang 5 compiler on OSX.

Version 3.8.6

Build fixes.

Version 3.8.5

Test updates.

Version 3.8.3

Build fixes

Version 3.8.2 (14 Sept 2010)

Build fix for the freeform tools.

Version 3.8.1 (5 May 2010)

The handler now implements its own transfer_attributes code to merge
attributes from its DAS response into the DDS.

There are also handful of build improvements.

version 3.8.0 (2 Feb 2010)

Removed Dejagnu tests and added autotest tests. 
Made changes to allow for a Shrew build project and added 'cccc' targets
so that a metric snapshot can be taken.
 
version 3.7.12 (9 June 2009)

Minor fix - fixed broken dejagnu tests, soon to be replaced with autotest
tests. 

Version 3.7.11 (16 March 2009)

Constraint fixes.

Support for the service interface.

version 3.7.10 (29 Jan 2009)

Bug fixes and updates for the new libdap and bes code.

Version 3.7.9 (26 June 2008)

Minor enhancements and configuration upgrades

Version 3.7.8 (29 Feb 2008)

Updates for bes 3.6.0.

Configuration updates for pkg and rpm builds, libdap and bes checking, and
pkg configuration.

Version 3.7.7 (14 Nov 2007)

pkg and rpm build fixes

Version 3.7.6 (14 Nov 2007)

Don't edit bes.conf during make install, but document the bes-ff-data.sh
script and the bes-conf make target in README.

Version 3.7.5 (13 March 2007)

Added automatic configuration of the handler using 'make install.' Now the
handler is automatically configured in the bes.conf file in the default
location. Test data are also installed, so after installing this handler
Hyrax will have data to serve providing an easy way to test your new install
and to see how the a working bes.conf should look. To use this, make sure
that you first install the bes, and that dap-server gets intalled too.
Finally, every time you install or reinstall handlers, make sure to restart
the BES and OLFS.

Version 3.7.4

Improved error handling.

Comes bundled with test data.

Build fixes.

Version 3.7.3

Updates for the 1.4 release of Server 4. Also included are bug fixes, memory
leak fixes, and performance enhencements.

Version 3.7.2

Now builds as a libtool module.

The module name is no longer hardcoded.

Version 3.7.1

Fixed a bug (#435) where functions in different handlers with the same names
clashed when the handlers were loaded as shared object libraries. 

Patrick fixed a problem with the help text.

Version 3.7.0

This version of the FreeForm handler includes an executable for use with
Server3 and a shared-object library (aka module) for use with Server4. This
is a source release to support the Server4 1.2 beta release and has not been
tested with Server3, although there should be no problems.

Version 3.6.1

Fixes for Mac OS/X:

1. A compile-time issue was resolved. With Tiger, configure did not set the
compile-time symbol FREEFORM to the correct value. This caused the compile to
fail.

2. Since the Mac is a big-endian machine (well, excpet for the new intel
macs...) some of the binary data tests failed. I've marked those as expected
to fail so that the whole suite does not fail beacuse of this.

Note that we are not making binary packages for OS/X, so this will be a source-
only release. These changes will not affect the Linux distributions. The test
changes may affect the Solaris dist, but not in an operational way.

Version 3.6.0

Updated rpm spec file using a patch from Patrice Dumas.

Updated the code so that it compiles with libdap 3.6.0.

Version 3.5.0

This version of the FreeForm format handler is essentially the same as the
previous version (3.4) with the exception that it now builds like the other
handlers and works with the dap-server 3.5 base software.
